>> Bianca Gandolfo: So we're going
to talk about data structures now.
We're going to go into the theoretical
aspects of the data structure.
We're going to describe what it looks
like the operations you can expect on it.
And also the time complexity and
analysis of these various operations.
So that's step one.
The analysis,
discovery even real life applications,
why you would even use
this data structure.
The next piece is diving into
the implementation details and so
this would be taking those specific
methods that or perform a particular
operation on your data structure and
writing it such that it beats the specs.
It solves the problem within
the given time complexity
requirement of that particular data
structure which often means that it relies
on something on a particular
data structure for storage.
In Java script we don't have a lot
of data structures that come
out of the box especially pre ES6, so
pre ES6 we really only had an array or
an object as a data structure.
You know,
you can also sort things in variables and
you have primitive data types and
things like that.
But if you wanna store collections.
And I mean you could really store.
We're gonna do it an exercise where we
create an array with string as a store.
So you could do that.
But it's just kind of like a fun exercise.
But typically,
when you're thinking about storage
you're really thinking about an array or
an object under the hood.
So you have like the core storage
of that data structure and
then you have those operations that
perform on that underlying data structure.
So then, so that was step two
the implementation details.
Step three is solving problems with it,
right?
So actually, using that data structure
to solve an interview type question.
So we'll do some practice
problems together after.
And then we'll have like a recap and
we'll talk about kind of
an overview comparing contrast.
All of the data structures.
All the different operations that we may
or may not do with that data structure and
think about how we could approach them.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool.
So the data structures that we're gonna
go over today, we have stacks, queues,
linked lists, hash tables,
arrays and strings.
So here we have this is like the classic
diagram of the JavaScript run time.
And we have the stack,
the queue and the heap.
So the stack is the call stack every
time you call a function it gets pushed
to a stack.
And then we have the queue which is
the message queue which is also a piece of
the run time that deals with
the order that your code executes.
So that's some examples for
stack and queue.
We have our link list here.
Link list is a cool data structure.
It's not continuous, right?
All these nodes can be anywhere in memory.
Then we just have pointers.
Link list are important to
understand how pointers even work.
And that's why a lot of interview
questions focus on linked lists
to show that you understand how
references to data work versus
having a data bi-value.
Then we have hash tables.
Hash tables implement
a couple cool things.
We have a hashing function that we have
on our diagram on the top
of the screen there.
Which it will take some stringified keys
and return some integer between a range.
That's a hashing function,
that's a core component of a hash table.
Hash tables are used under the hood in.
Anytime you're like gosh,
I need something in memory.
Any time you use an object that's going
to be a hash table under the hood.
And we have arrays.
You know all about arrays already
I don't think we need to go there.
As well as strings you should be using
these pretty regularly in your code and
be familiar with how they work.
You can deal with arrays and
strings pretty much interchangeably when
you're thinking about interview questions.
So when you're asked a string question you
could just think about it as an array.
The difference though a key component and
I'll say this again later is
that strings are immutable.
Which means that you cannot
swap characters in a string or
anything like that versus an array, right?
So if this were an apple if we
wanted to swap E and A we could.
With a string you would have to create
a new string with those character swapped.
So that's a key difference
between a string and array.
Otherwise, you can kind of
consider them the same.
And often, I'll just automatically
assume that I'm gonna make a string
into an array by splitting it.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: That's
what we're gonna talk about today or
we're just gonna hop right in.